# ivettetmtz.github.io

# **CS-499 ePortfolio**

## **Introduction**
   Hi my name is Ivette Trejo and this is my portfolio GitHub for the final project of SNHU CS499.
   The GitHub Pages is published with the descriptions, code reviews, artifacts, and enhancements of each course project.


## **Education Review**
   Completing my coursework throughout the Computer Science program has allowed me to not only solidify my technical knowledge but also showcase my strengths to prepare me for the field of computer science with confidence. My experience with collaborating in a team environment has emphasized collaboration for peer code reviews and managing conflicts such as setting up systems and software in many courses. Communicating with stakeholders is vital when communicating in any tech role. Whether it is writing documentation, presenting projects, or solving complex coding problems, I learned to present solutions and provide updates for my work as you would in a real-world setting. Understanding data structures and algorithms is a great foundation for computer science and this program has trained me to handle this topic. I have implemented linked lists, and binaries, and solved algorithmic problems in past courses such as Software Development or Mobile Architecture that prepared me to write efficient and scalable code. Software engineering and database design go hand-in-hand with data structures by teaching me to maintain applications using design principles, development life cycles, and unit testing. These skills helped me focus on building full-stack applications and researching front and back-end coding within data layers. Additionally, security is a crucial part of programming, and learning the basic practices of finding vulnerabilities,  encryption methods, and data privacy ensures I prioritize it in the early stages of the life cycle. 
  The technical artifacts I have chosen for my capstone work together by showcasing the importance of software design and engineering, algorithms and data structures, and databases. I combined the course outcomes with problem-solving, critical thinking, and analyzing designs to enhance each artifact and tie all of the portfolios together. This allows me to demonstrate my technical achievements in each project starting with OpenGL 3D image creation, followed by JUnit Testing and Automating, and finally API routing to a single page application using JavaScript.


## **Artifacts**
   The first artifact I have chosen is the CS-330 Computer Graphics and Visualization project final from February 2025. This application uses Visual Studio in OpenGL to design a 2D image taken by the user into a 3D scene with lighting, shading, and texture. The enhancement provided an expansion in the complexity of the code by adding new 3D objects, lighting sources, comments, and clarity in the overall code. 
  The second artifact I have chosen is the CS-320 Computer Software Testing, Automation, and Quality Assurance project final from December 2023. This application is used to automate the process of scheduling appointments, collecting contact information, and providing a list of tasks to complete. The enhancement allowed this application to collect contacts and store information more easily and faster by updating the array list to a HashMap within the contact classes. 
  The third artifact I have chosen is the CS-465 Full Stack Development project final from February 2025. This application is used to call API routes with JavaScript to display a single-page application on the user's hosted website. The enhancement placed in this project included updating extra features, such as a delete button, to a logged-in user's trip cards taken from their database. 
